good morning and welcome to the Ricky
working on a rebel the different
acknowledge mr. I definitely evangelist
physicist from American Samoa City
Reuters Gilbert Arizona step debilidad
Sudan or j Cole or Marco questioning
good i automatically burncoat American
able to come including already much
better than watching my word avoid
antenna she had a bigger tax and the
commencement and you know again or no
device will make another colony thanks
again and cuddle oh it is today what
we're going to get a little juice to do
today it also know your solution about
the moon emoticon estate opened it
reduces annuity show de acuerdo de una
cita con una foto de minas curtain rod
today we're a teacup Adonis NIDA
witnesses morning we want to sit so he
like a lot for coming out today oh you
know completed or even started i'm on
your ground software engineer via
bluetooth team for this is useful stand
guard on John and looking at what we've
done oh ok I got here how can we
shouldn't go thinking of like lots of
embers and there's a lot of you know
that's a position in jaguar with some
social values of Bluetooth in wooden x 1
n.o an extended number no capital
ordinances we're kind of certification
what is I feel couples yoga more than
whole file footage later or equivalent
hamsa maxing to any devices at main
tunnel ladies I Syria to the zucchini
it is initiated never thought I was
not what you know they be allowed you a
uniform like couple just did a cool idea
as it was ok with any large association
for the phone anything about your exes
notice the internet and it real
religious people about why i said well
oh god that is so we also had to work
our object the object profiles in the
art of our quality learning though ok
that this inside explaining unique
equation rental company including the
school rather than filed by vitac
mauritius mexico tomoko convict
individually yeah we had system
preferences support control engagement
oh no support and many equity body area
will be delayed ominous
operation instant Oh petition de acuerdo
de mano y axis ooh oh ok Asha
additionally instead in addition to do
the system support we've opened what we
have time oh did you get older you know
no memory of it wasn't we're going to
sell it again Charles and with the
tennis event include in one Raila got a
booty framework letting water ain't
working this is nate yqa you know that
is the distance of the whole line work
provides all day Missoula core services
ISS which is hard work by the way on the
north we go through them a lot more into
line the free article i don't know i'm
not doing regular delusional hobo jack
channel our comm channel hello anybody
bexar good at this and they don't get is
SVP x this is obviously not the more
tickets initially we provide it that's
one more do i no kodomo i was either of
the comic day long handle it's open all
you know why candidate I westerly buddy
and initiation terrible you don't know
or initiate the city was reduced energy
to kiannaseto is equal to like a cuticle
these are not even so that's what we had
a noble down release back in jerez
little over a year we did not like this
often concern about an operational sure
and also use soo do that but uh he might
all right no increase in significance
ago that when I became an worker in
addition to push probe why Oklahoma
decided attending a while transfer
credit in a row qualified on or the 60s
you know you don't even worry about it
push a lot of it was fun relaxing
goodbye to a faltering Rosa Colette if
you're acting like you guys DP rustic
didn't city rated clean we go file
system photos I besito we've added north
michigan would defile exchanges in the
header here so tomorrow pictures of
Bratislava Jerusalem testimony quick do
not chargeable small a Conestoga música
por cuanto a su no possibility now
banged up to it Romeo nkosi justified
omoide economics or Cristiano to do
models is also mode again our latest
release we are in coconut in profile up
and so don't open up I that you can use
your total mana most were think esteem
as it makes it really
the demo content to different bars
instead of process it was a bad idea but
with the price including system I
speaker not gonna like it actually you
guys look a long way quality night ago
forget I said oh oka sangano but it is
hard work that we do except particular
that you know how that data report sir
he doesn't seem like that an eager to
decide if it is getting a little too
complicated occasion what about the same
code then if you reported I'm you're
getting a hotel compartment channel or
whatever people i don't know but i've
read it and added a contagion what's the
matter open it with people in it
provides don't we dig into this good
work powerful it is 400 years i reported
open with a casa to equal to n de but
duh we also have been in removing that
from the preference to the names and all
that I snap really interested the
different devices emitting energy
density know so much roasted one stop
parody to do it was ok so for the most
wicked a toga toga the kiddie initial
part of the work that would not pass
here well don't I have had a new API
said I see especially looking fine on
Redick so most of the main are real at
any particular Venice knocked out a
little bit also their disguises our
cement wall ruiners devices as well
about it much more importantly while 80
millimeters you go to do it without any
particular on etsy dopa API and as
always involve our and the generalized
API I are both see and after a key
system which is senior adviser mr.
vizcarra is you know I didn't know patio
or people suitable witness I'm getting a
lot of course today it's a much cleaner
or domestic about like I didn't skidded
enough I want to do with the hid device
keep it going to know that look mr.
probably gonna go ahead might even tell
you a little bit about a little bit put
it on when you can be done and when a
slide on full uncle Cody and food
Alliance the gold plans subscribe now
he's so much done all is important that
I was acquitted engineer new hid device
yeah there's events the driver the blows
up
next to the device under won't finish
all of the profile but then I could have
had a shocker no more that new content
with what I think you know that makes
Elmo wonder what / it manager Ed geri
pls just a little bit a muscle extended
if you don't think with the customer a
supervisor because of that above hit
manager John and James engelhardt word
on the husband you saw this and another
thing because we don't actually did you
access email out our work so well I
don't know content in touch it actually
looks quite nice and estimates in noho
copy them and we haven't looked into
this yeah craig chiefly are don't know
each other things that we posted at
aloha screaming like a super excited
after the demo but i don't know hundra
second connector my you a little bit
about a minute or two series we could it
is not available to the scrimmage
internal utilities your to do dinner
what utilities that ok configure animals
in any society the setting this
incredible experience to Trails
Association people have certain
orientation Aries lettuce new content
religion importance in a little earlier
also a little work so it's kinda good to
know how it works there are really two
different types of serial ports that are
subtly different semantics so it's good
to treat them independently there's
incoming port and outgoing port now it's
a normal serial cable you don't have to
worry about it connect up the table you
talk to the device on the end it's not
incoming or outgoing but with Bluetooth
it it's a little bit different so with
incoming serial ports a device itself
will connect up to the system and any
device can connect to a particular
serial port service and the application
that is listening on that serial port
will get the data from that device now
as a result of that the device is going
to or the application rather is going to
connect up an attempt to use the port
before there's anything connected so in
that particular case it treats it just
like you would a serial port with no
cable connected if you do a read you
don't get any data if you write to it it
just goes to bitbucket once a connection
incoming connection is established it
gets routed automatically to the
applications that is as the serial port
open has an outstanding read and just
automatically starts passing data as far
as outgoing serial ports are concerned
it's up to the user to configure the net
single outgoing port works with a single
device so they select the device they
can select any RF com based service on
the device and that serial port becomes
configured when you go to open up that
port and an application the system will
go and attempt to connect to the device
attempt to open up the necessary
channels to open to create the data
pipes for that port now one possible
problem here is that this open process
is actually can be quite lengthy if the
device is present their timeouts
associated with it so you might spend
10-15 seconds in the synchronous open
call waiting for connection to fail so
as a result that's not always resulting
in the best user experience so now that
we know kind of how the serial ports
work want to tell you that we really
recommend that you don't use them
they're really for legacy support if
you've got an application that already
written that needs to use your real port
or you know maybe for debugging purposes
it's a little bit easier that's fine but
it for number of the reasons I've
mentioned it's it's really an
inefficient way to do it you can get
full access to those serial ports by
using the RF com api's that we provide
and those API is provide you with a much
much richer set of functionality if you
a lot better and more granular error
reporting you get a lot more direct
control over the channel creation and
the behavior of the channel itself as
well as it provides a lot more
information about it again we can't
recommend this technique enough it just
will result in a lot better applications
in addition to the serial port changes
we've added a number of features in our
UI elements that make the user
experience a lot a lot nicer now to
support that we've added a couple of new
device categories so we've allowed now
the concept of favorite device or
multiple favorite devices so that if you
have a device that you use over and over
again you just mark it as a favorite and
then every time you go in any
application to one of our UI channels
that device will be accessible so if
you'd say you always say send files over
to your palm or want to send applica new
applications to your palm now you can
just use the bluetooth file exchange
every time you go to send a file palm is
going to be listed right there as a
favorite device so you don't have to
spend time going through a lengthy
discovery process every time you want to
send a file we've also added support for
recent devices where we keep track of
each connection that's established and
we'll go ahead and list those and most
recent first so if you're sending
sending contacts to your phone and got
three different ones you want to send as
soon as you've sent that first one it
now shows up in your recent list so you
can keep selecting that phone over and
over again so just again it drastically
speeds up the process where you do the
more than one thing at want in the UI
itself we've added new filters that lets
you filter by those categories so say
you only want to see your favorites you
can easily do that only want to see
recent or just the discovered devices
you can do all of those things as well
we've let you filter by the actual type
of device so computer PDA phones so if
you're in an environment that tend to
have a lot of Bluetooth devices which
we're not there yet but someday will
actually let you easily go and find a
specific device you're looking for
without having to wade through a long
list in addition to those user features
there's a number new pieces of API that
makes things a lot better in the in the
UI elements that allow you to for
example run panel modal or as a sheet
it's full control over all of the text
that actually appears on the panel so
the title bar the description the prompt
that's used in the button to select a
device are fully customizable by the
application and as well lets you fully
localize the information that you put in
there so should be able to do pretty
much anything you want with these panels
we've also added support for filtering
and validating the user selection so if
you know you want to connect to say an
object push service on a device you can
tell the panel that I only want devices
to let the user select a device that
supports the object push service in that
case it will actually go and verify
it'll do an SCP query it will verify the
device has that service before
finalizing the selection so that way
when your code returns you'll know that
the device it will basically give you
the service that you asked for you know
that the device has it you don't have to
worry about doing it yourself all of
these new api's are fully header dot and
they're consistent across all the
different UI elements so once you learn
it for one it applies to all of them to
support the new the new different
categories and device types we've added
two new API on to the i/o Bluetooth
device object itself so got a whole slew
API to manage the favorite devices lets
you get to list of the currently logged
in users favorites lets you check to see
if a single device is actually a
favorite and then you can even add and
remove the device from the favorites as
well so hopefully only do that as a user
prompting and not just behind their back
because they probably wouldn't like it
too much but we also add finely API to
access a paired devices so you can get a
list of all the system paired devices as
well as find out if the individual
devices paired and then in order to
support reasons we've added a recent
access date attribute to the device
object so it lets you see when device
was most recently accessed and there's
API that lets you get the list of the
end most recently accessed device for
the user so say you only have room for
five reasons well you just call this API
and it will return you the five most
recent devices for the user
additionally we've added a lot of new
functionality in the basically in our LT
cap and RF com layers the original set
of AP is we had worked but there wasn't
really a distinction between
asynchronous and synchronous versus the
API so the api's that were there were
kind of a combination of the two they
would end up behaving asynchronously but
without letting you know when an
operator in complete operation completed
and but might also block so you kind of
get the worst of all worlds in that case
what we've done now is to go ad fully
asynchronous and fully synchronous
versions of the API to l2cap and our
comm channel so now there's channel open
API is that lets you do that there's
right ap is that lets you get either
wait until the right completes or get
notified when a complete there's number
of new notifications about channel state
changes now all of these new AP eyes are
available only in 10 25 and forwards so
if you do make use of them you will need
to be dependent upon 10 25 however we
highly recommend that you do this
because these new API is especially for
asynchronous behavior really lets you
provide a much better user experience
you can really improve the application
responsiveness avoid the spinning cursor
in a lot of cases since a number of the
operations tend to take a long time
especially in the failure cases so it's
really worthwhile to use asynchronous
API so that the user doesn't have to
feel like the application isn't
responding within the l2cap channel
object in order to support the new
asynchronous behavior we've added the
concept of a channel delegate and what
it does it allows the delicate delegate
to them receive the necessary callbacks
notifications and events that go along
with the different happenings in the
system so the delegate will get new
incoming data when it'll get the channel
open complete notification it'll get
notified when the channel gets closed
when it gets reconfigured this is a new
one that we didn't have before so if the
help to get channel itself has go
through
figuration process to get some new
parameters it will do that it's also
then a right complete notification so
it's kind of a one-stop shop for all the
asynchronous notifications within the
channel the api's for those are divided
in a couple different categories we've
got a couple new api's on bluetooth
device that lets you both open the
channel asynchronously are synchronously
now as a result of the new channel
delegate you for every channel has to
have a delegate when it opened so since
that is now the one way to receive
incoming data notifications for example
it's a requirement that there is a
delegate that at least implement the
incoming data call back otherwise if
data comes in it would just get dropped
on the floor so pretty much have to have
that set up the old method that was used
to open the channel as we are going to
be deprecating that so we definitely
recommend that you move to these new API
it's just generally a lot better you
know whether it's a synchronous call you
know whether it's an asynchronous call
really defines what the behavior is
rather than kind of leaving it up to you
know how we've decided to do it we also
have new asynchronous right methods on
the l2cap channel objects so we've got
right a sink and right sink that again
behave the same way does the right thing
in the right place the asynchronous
right we'll go ahead return right away
it's not going to block on you it lets
you know gives you real good user
experience with that both of these
replace the old bright call our comm
channel has API is really similar
there's a new to our comm channel
delegate object it gets the same
messages when there's new incoming data
channel open closed our comm has some
additional control signals and flow
control information that are
communicated through the delegate gets
the right complete notification and then
there's a new cue space available
notification that I'll explain in a
little more detail in a minute for our
comm api's we have the same kind of
channel open api's on the Bluetooth
device object itself for opening a
channel synchronously asynchronously as
with
to capsids delegate is required to be
able to open a new channel and as with
l2cap we're going to be deprecating the
old open our comm channel method as well
the our comm channel API itself has
you'd expect right a sink rate sink
versions that are going to be replacing
the old write and write simple methods
now we're also deprecating the old
incoming data listener and incoming
event listener methods because all of
those listeners are now replaced by the
delegate everything goes to the one
place in the delegate object now one of
the things that in doing these fully
synchronous fully asynchronous API s
with our comp channel it's a little
different than l2cap is that our comm
provides flow control so we're basically
told when we can and when we can't write
data so in the case where we can't write
data we have to queue it up internally
now in order to avoid having just an
unbounded to space there are some
maximum set within the channel that are
pretty high Sun likely you're going to
run into a case where you're queuing up
too much data but it's possible so in
order to deal with that situation nicely
we've added the case where a right call
will may fail with KO return no space
here so if that happens we will then
subsequently call the delegate the Q
space available notification once the Q
is actually available again so you can
easily just tend that operation until
you're notified that we have Q space
again it's pretty much in common
operation when dealing with system with
slope control
now we've also gotten a number of
questions about how SCP services work in
the system it's it's not straight
forward to just go and add new services
so that it's a good idea to talk a
little bit about how that works you
pretty much if if you're looking to add
support for you know new Bluetooth
profiles or maybe you want to write your
own profile like you know maybe your
chat service or something like that you
will likely need to add services to the
system so that other devices can find
that service so we've defined really two
types of services transient persistent a
transient service is as implied it's
going to only just for a short period of
time in our case what we've done is
we've defined that amount of time to be
the running time for the application
that registered to the service so as
soon as that application dies exit just
quit by the user we're going to remove
that service so you don't have to worry
about cleaning up it'll just go away for
you persistent service is a little bit
better where maybe not better but more
useful in some cases anyway where it
will stick around outside of the scope
of the application that registered it so
it'll exist through reboot and doesn't
actually require that your client
application be running it can be
configured to go and automatically
launch an application one an incoming
connection is created to the service now
the service itself we've defined a
dictionary format to describe how
particular service looks so the
dictionary itself has individual entries
where each entry corresponds to an sdp
attribute now that that format itself is
a little bit in depth a little bit more
that we can go into here but it should
be fully deaf fully documented in the
header doc and if you do have any
questions about it we've got a developer
mailing list was more than happy to help
you with anything you need there in
addition to the format itself some of
the attributes or actually will actually
be defined by the system so the service
record handle and our comm channel ID
are the two that are currently assigned
by the systems that way we only have
there's a single main space essentially
for the record handles and channel I
these so we have to manage that
internally we also have this additional
local attributes attribute that lets you
specify some custom controls for
particular service that control the
behavior of the system with with regards
to that single service the currently we
only have two supported attributes
persistent attributes as you'd expect at
the boolean attribute that if accepted
true it it indicates that the service
will will exist until you remove it if
it's either missing or false then that
service will be removed as soon as the
application exit there's also a target
application that specifies a particular
application to launch when an incoming
service when an incoming connection to
that service is established so that
pretty much will only work when there's
a logged in user so when that users
logged in connection to they've created
your new chat service and you said oh
here's my chat application to to launch
one when somebody connects to it well
what happened then it'll go and launch
an application as the currently logged
in user so it's just like they're
running a nap now you don't actually
have to have a target application for
persistent service but it's more useful
in that case you might want to have a
running process like you know how many
extra or something that that provides
notifications on the states of thing so
you can set up even a persistent service
without launching your application and a
running app can get notifications for
that service additionally we might add
we're likely to add new new local
attributes to control additional things
about the way that individual services
behave
now in order to actually add a new
service we've got function a Bluetooth
bad service day it's pretty simple to
use and what we've done is for the
service dictionary description we've
defined it so that it only uses the
native plist data types so it makes it
real easy you can define your service
actually in a plist file load it in and
then call add service with that
dictionary so you don't have to create a
lot of code to build up a complex
dictionary you can just do it in the
file makes it real easy this particular
function will actually return a newly
created bluetooth SDP service record
that includes all of the attributes that
were signed by the system so one thing
to really take note here is that if
you're creating a persistent service the
client has to remember the record handle
returned in this in this particular
service record because that record
handle actually is then used in the
remove service with record handle call
so if if it doesn't remember it then
you're kind of stuck you need to know
that to remove that service so in this
particular case the transient services
you don't need to worry about they'll be
removed automatically for you but again
if so you only want to service to exist
for not so the entire running the
application but just part of it you'll
need to remember that as well for
columnist function so I've got a number
of helpful hints here we've got some
sample code that does the number of the
things I've talked about we've got the
are calm server sample is actually a
it's a simple chat server that goes
along with there's an archon client
sample well the server code shows how to
it has its own plist file with the
dictionary format set for a sort of a
fictional custom chat service it also
shows how shows how to load that in how
to set up the service shave off the
shave off the handle and then remove it
one needed now in case you do get into
situation where say your code crash and
didn't save off the handle or if you got
to you forgot to implement
implement the code to save it off it is
possible to remove it with a little bit
of surgery so in this case there's the
blue dita plist file in the the roots
library preferences directory so you can
remove that file it will remove your
service it will also remove all of the
other cash and information on your
system so i definitely recommend only
doing this in the last ditch effort
because you will lose all the device
names to buy services you lose all your
pairings so if useful as a developer
tool but definitely not for for the end
user so now how do you actually get
access to these new AP is well we are
currently in the last stages of working
on an sdk that will be based on our 10
to 5 release keep checking the developer
sex it will be up there real soon
includes all the api's that i've talked
about here it also includes support for
package decoder which as some of you
have noticed in one of our software
updates we disabled it for security
reasons the packet decoder itself would
allow pretty much anybody access to all
of the traffic's going over your
Bluetooth link and that includes linky
data with the hid stuff hit data they
could snoop your keyboards and
everything so by default in production
builds all of the support for package
oder decoder is completely removed the f
ck itself includes a bill that has that
turn back on so all you need to do to
use that application and develop your
your new services is just installed sdk
and you'll get support for it so now I'd
like to turn the presentation over to
mike larson iza bluetooth technology
manager is going to talk about the kind
of new new directions and new what's
going on in the Bluetooth industry
thanks Eric it's been a long year
there's been a lot going on Bluetooth
industries really come a long way the
few industry events have attended it's
gone from how do we create this brand
new technology and get people to adopt
it too ok it's out there it starting to
become successful in lots of devices
what do we have to do now the push is
largely for simple configuration people
are realizing that if it takes more than
five minutes to configure device the
user is going to drop it on the floor
and not touch it again and say this
doesn't work along those lines the
special interest group has now started a
what they call the five minute ready
initiative what they're looking for
there is a five minute out of box
experience and that the industry shows
others are pushing for even sooner I've
heard as low as 30 seconds so that's the
goal what else has happened in terms of
Bluetooth devices over the last year the
user interfaces have gotten a lot
simpler if you've an early adopter this
I've been he's been been able to notice
that the user interfaces moved from five
or six levels deep and a device to
reddit the foreground with the new
devices like the sony ericsson t610 so
that's the direction this is going
people are starting to take this
seriously and figure out a way to get
the user up and running in very little
time there are a few changes coming on
in the technology side from the
bluetooth sig in the industry the first
one is late this year they're coming out
with version 1.2 they have a few
features included there the primary one
is improved quality of service which
means that you can guarantee that your
hit devices will get the time to
transfer their hit data when they need
to and other quality of service
dependent devices will get the time they
need when they need it another feature
of version 12 is adaptive frequency
hopping what afh is going to provide is
better coexistence of Bluetooth devices
what
other 2.4 gigahertz devices in order for
AOH to work and be successful it does
require a version 1 dot to radio on both
sides of the length now that's said this
is something you're going to want to
consider if you're building a hardware
device if you have the choice and are
making radio decisions now check with
your vendors and make sure that the
radio that you're going to use for your
device will be 1 dot two capable and
will support a page it will help you out
and it will help your users out down the
road now pass the end of this year and
on to the next horizon sometime next
year hopefully the bluetooth sig and the
technology leaders are looking at medium
data rate this will require a new radio
today's radios aren't likely to be
upgradable through firmware to support
this it will require a new hardware what
does medium data rate gives you it gives
you up to two to three megabit per
second through put on a single channel
so that's currently scheduled for mid
next year we hope everything comes
together and that'll allow a few more
Bluetooth devices to exist on a single
link get some some new things using
bluetooth there are a few things that
we've noticed in the last year and a
half two years that we've been playing
with Bluetooth and here a few of our
notes that will help you out and and
make your Bluetooth devices coexist with
the rest of the world inquiry operations
and paging operations which are device
discovery and creating connections
respectively they really disrupt data to
dot 11 traffic as well as other
Bluetooth traffic on the link for that
reason in a couple others we do not plan
to offer a direct inquiry API accessing
the inquiry API is possible through our
user interface another thing to make
note of is 720 kilobits per second is
the total link budget for bandwidth and
throughput if you assume that that is
the budget available for your connection
you're not going to be very kind to
other connections
and you will not get that throughput if
the user is selected to use a bluetooth
keyboard or a mouse because the quality
of service constraints will require us
to access those devices as well so if
you need if you need a full seven
hundred kilobits the bandwidth Bluetooth
is probably the wrong choice for your
wireless connectivity if you need
someone less than that and can co-exist
and and deal with less throughput then
it's a good choice this goes back to the
point I mentioned on the last slide
where paging operations disrupt both
existing Bluetooth traffic and 802 11
traffic in order to find out if devices
are within range a loop of paging to
find if the device is there and connect
to it is not a real good use of
resources it's not kind to the other
people using the link and it's not kind
to the 802 11 connections that are in
place now I like 10 reduce Craig
Keithley who's going to talk about some
opportunities that are out there in the
Bluetooth world for our customers thank
you very much thanks Mike so there are a
number of opportunities in fact before I
came up on stage today we're talking
with Mike and he just got back from the
Bluetooth Congress and he tells me that
my price point of $75 for a low-cost
serial adapter is too high and that it
should be doable at forty dollars based
on some new chipsets they're coming out
so scratch that and put forty dollars in
there would you want to see more hid
devices and I'm particularly interested
in seeing gaming devices come along
there are some game pads for example
that are RF based but they work with the
USB adapter custom one I'd like to see
those go to bluetooth digital still
cameras are coming along the i3 a
committee which is the organization that
deals with specifications for digital
still cameras does have a PTP over
Bluetooth specification and development
for those of you who aren't familiar
with PTP its picture transport protocol
it's the core which our image capture
architecture is based all the command
sets that are in image caps are capture
all those that architecture is its
structure around PGP so there's USB PTP
cameras available today built-in support
with a profile or a USB class driver
there are there's a firewire PTP class
specification and works and we want to
see that extended to digital still
cameras as well I've seen some GPS
receivers samples that are just in
prototype form now that have a bluetooth
interface on them and I think that would
be a very cool device to have to be able
to get your GPS location over Bluetooth
wirelessly application wise this is a
somewhat challenging area for us
certainly the selling clicker is a nice
innovative product the question now is
what other things can you do application
front so I'd like to hear about them
you've got ideas you want to want to
have us help you with marketing efforts
please contact me and that actually goes
for all of the tooth products that you
might be working on I'm looking at stuff
that we can do it next Macworld San
Francisco for a Bluetooth area and I'd
like to be able to highlight products if
we do contact me if you've got something
in the works the blue seas hardware
solutions well so cereal and audio are
the ones that are presently on our minds
our hardware is capable of supporting
SEO we haven't released any profile
support for that yet we should if all
things go well be able to do that in the
future what I do want to encourage
people to do is to pay attention that
the SCO and its current implementation
is not adequate for doing speech
recognition so the SEO based cell phone
style headset so that we may be able to
support them and the operating system
would not be something that I want you
to plan on using with our speech
recognition engine if you do an advanced
audio product however where you can do
say stereo headphones or you can get
good sample rates on the microphone
that's something I'm very interested in
working with you on I want to make sure
that we have support and our speech
recognition engine for those types of
devices
so as a general rule if you're working
on advanced audio we need 22 kilohertz
16-bit resolutions be able to do good
speech recognition so as we've mentioned
earlier we haven't put anything in the
kernel for developers it's not released
to Darwin I'm able to consider some
specialized of requests that I didn't
then need to go work with marketing and
engineering on to make sure that it's
the right thing to do but I do want to
hear from you if you need to do
something in the colonel so the roadmap
well this is yesterday's session but as
you're aware we do have DVDs that come
out usually about three months after
developer conference so that's one
session you should look at the other
thing is that and I should have put it
on the slide friday morning at nine
o'clock in this room we have a kid and
force feedback session and if you're
doing hit devices or you want to be able
to access a Bluetooth hid device you
should come to this session as was
mentioned we really are or strongly
encouraging people to do everything
that's hit related through the hidden
manager so that includes Bluetooth and
in fact it could include almost any
transport protocol we could do hit
controls over firewire for that matter
the the representation of a hidden
device with a kid style report report
descriptor and getting hid reports will
come in through the hidden manager
regardless of the transport layer in the
future and that's where we want people
to go to get hidden data so contact why
there's the standard list I do encourage
all of you to take a look at the
Bluetooth developer mailing list get
along Ural there but look for list a
pecan and then click on the list on that
website there's a lot of lists run by us
Bluetooth is one of them and you should
go there to participate in discussions
with other Bluetooth developers our
standard reference library stuff